# To Learn 4

## Paper 1

- To connect to your resources hosted in an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) using their private IP addresses, use a private virtual interface. If you want to establish a virtual private network (VPN) connection from your company network to an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) over an AWS Direct Connect (DX) connection, you must use a public virtual interface for your DX connection.
- You can't deploy an application to your on-premises servers using Elastic Beanstalk. This is only applicable to your Amazon EC2 instances. You can use CodeDeploy
- Amazon now allows you to enable Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) signing for all existing and new public hosted zones, and enable DNSSEC validation for Amazon Route 53 Resolver. Amazon Route 53 DNSSEC provides data origin authentication and data integrity verification for DNS and can help customers meet compliance mandates, such as FedRAMP.
- You can configure a bucket to be a Requester Pays bucket. With Requester Pays buckets, the requester instead of the bucket owner pays the cost of the request and the data download from the bucket. The bucket owner always pays the cost of storing data.
- ECS Network mode
    - Bridge - allows multiple port mappings to the same target port
    - awsvpc - With the awsvpc network mode, Amazon ECS creates and manages an Elastic Network Interface (ENI) for each task and each task receives its own private IP address within the VPC. The advantage of using the awsvpc network mode is that each task has a separate security group to allow or deny traffic. This means you have greater flexibility to control communications between tasks and services at a more granular level. You can also configure a task to deny incoming traffic from another task located on the same host.
- Amazon Lex is a fully managed AI service for building conversational interfaces into any application.
- Amazon Comprehend is a natural-language processing (NLP) service that uses machine learning to uncover valuable insights and connections in text.
- Your Amazon ECS tasks can have an IAM role associated with them. The permissions granted in the IAM role are assumed by the containers running in the task.
- Amazon Macie is designed to use machine learning and pattern matching to discover and protect your sensitive data in AWS. Macie primarily scans Amazon S3 buckets for data security and data privacy.
- You can trigger lambda from codecommit which allows you to run automation in the pipeline, for instance scan the code for sensitive data or kick off another build project.
- You can enable API caching in Amazon API Gateway to cache your endpoint's responses. With caching, you can reduce the number of calls made to your endpoint and also improve the latency of requests to your API.
- Even if the EC2 instance protection is enabled, the ASG has the ability to terminate an EC2 instance that it has created. You should suspend the "Terminate" process of the ASG instead.

## Paper 2

- AWS Cloud Adoption Readiness Tool (CART) to generate a migration assessment report to identify gaps in organizational skills and processes.
- You can use DMS to migrate a database onto an EC2 instance
- Inbound Resolver endpoints allow DNS queries to your VPC from your on-premises network or another VPC. (if the DNS is hosted in that VPC)
- Outbound Resolver endpoints allow DNS queries from your VPC to your on-premises network or another VPC.
- AWS IoT Greengrass makes it easy to perform machine learning inference locally on devices, using models that are created, trained, and optimized in the cloud.
- RDS Multi AZ is for redundancy, it does not improve read performances
- Most cost effective of the 5 Rs is Replatform ie move to AWS/cloud
- You can set up SSO with AWS Directory Service for Microsoft AD
- S3 versioning
    - Each object has a version ID, whether or not S3 Versioning is enabled. If S3 Versioning is not enabled, Amazon S3 sets the value of the version ID to null.
    - When you enable S3 Versioning on an existing bucket, objects that are already stored in the bucket are unchanged.
    - Subsequent updates to the files get a version ID, which distinguishes it from other versions of the same key.
- Scaled down environment version in a second region is preferred over a multi-region in terms of cost
- OLAP - Redshift
- OLTP - RDS / DynamoDB
- Service Control Policy (SCP) is not used to authorize access but restrict
- In a multi-tenant environment where you support multiple customers with different AWS accounts, we recommend using one external ID per AWS account. This ID should be a random string generated by the third party.
- Opsworks
    - In OpsWorks, you will be provisioning a stack and layers. The stack is the top-level AWS OpsWorks Stacks entity.
    - Every stack contains one or more layers, each of which represents a stack component, such as a load balancer or a set of application servers.
    - Recipes are Ruby applications that define a system's configuration.
- SQS FIFO queue can only handle 3000 messages per second

## Paper 3

- Cloudfront - SSE-C - For presigned URLs, specify the algorithm using the x-amz-server-side​-encryption​-customer-key-MD5 request header
- If you configure CloudFront to serve HTTPS requests using SNI, CloudFront associates your alternate domain name with an IP address for each edge location
- Immutable deployments can prevent issues caused by partially completed rolling deployments. If the new instances don’t pass health checks, Elastic Beanstalk terminates them, leaving the original instances untouched.
- Amazon Lightsail is a cost-effective solution for deploying simple web applications
- You have to configure a snapshot copy grant for a master key in the destination region so that Amazon Redshift can perform encryption operations in the destination region for snapshot copy
- With an RTO of 30 minutes, you can quickly restore backups of the EC2 snapshots of the web and application tier instead of running a hot-standby environment
- Oracle RAC is not supported by RDS
- Data lifecycle manager - automate the creation retention copy and deletion of snapshot/AMIs
- AWS IoT Core is a managed cloud service that enables connected devices to securely interact with cloud applications and other devices like MQTT
- Cloudfront HTTP to HTTPS - CloudFront provides its default SSL/TLS certificate
- Traffic Mirroring is an Amazon VPC feature that you can use to copy network traffic from an elastic network interface of Amazon EC2 instances
- VPC flow log data only contain OSI Layer 4 (Transport) information. This does not include payload contents.
- ALB access logs have similar content to HTTP/HTTPS logs, however, it only contains the request path and some headers on the logs
- Amazon Inspector to conduct a detailed scan for CVE in your fleet of EC2 instances
- IAM authentication for an API method in the API Gateway console. Then, you can use IAM policies and resource policies to designate permissions for your API’s users
- VPC endpoint policy is an IAM resource policy that you attach to an endpoint when you create or modify the endpoint. If you do not attach a policy when you create an endpoint, we attach a default policy for you that allows full access to the servic
- If you use an on premise hardware security modules (HSMs) to generate encryption master keys you shouldn't use CloudHSM
- only one virtual private gateway (VGW) can be attached to a VPC at a time
- Amazon FSx for Lustre is a large-scale, distributed parallel file system powering the workloads of most of the largest supercomputers
- AWS WAF can be used to mitigate DDOS
- Amazon inspector is a vulnerability management service that continuously scans your workloads for vulnerabilities.
- Amazon guard duty is a threat detection service that monitors for malicious activity and anomalous behaviour to protect aws accounts
- Macie detects personally identifiable information or intellectual property using machine learning

## Paper 4

- API Gateway - Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) is a browser security feature that restricts HTTP requests that initiate from scripts that run in the browser
- Amazon API Gateway will intermittently return HTTP status code 502 (Bad Gateway) errors if the AWS Lambda function exceeds its concurrency quota.
- Lambda - if third parties are getting overwhelmed you can decrease the number of concurrent invocations lowering the reserved concurrency
- App runner cannot deploy to multiple regions
- EFS Throughput
    - General Purpose performance mode is ideal for latency-sensitive use cases, like web serving environments, content management systems, home directories, and general file serving.
    - General purpose can have systems in the Max I/O mode which can scale higher levels of throughput and operations
    - Provisioned Throughput mode, you can specify the throughput of your file system independent of the amount of data stored.
- You can have one Direct Connect connection hit one Direct Connect Gateway and have it traverse to multiple Virtual Private Gateway Associations. This allows you to have one DCX to two regions.
- You can use an AWS Direct Connect gateway to connect your AWS Direct Connect connection over a private virtual interface to one or more VPCs in your account that are located in the same or different regions
- Secrets Manager can automatically rotate the secret for you according to a specified schedule
- RIs are either regional or per az. Depends where they are bought
- Before you can use Aurora Auto Scaling with an Aurora DB cluster, you must first create an Aurora DB cluster with a primary instance and at least one Aurora Replica.
- SQS queue cannot be used as a direct input for an AWS Step Function workflow.
- Amazon RDS Proxy sits between your application and your relational database to efficiently manage connections to the database and improve the scalability of the application. Amazon RDS Proxy can be enabled for most applications with no code changes.
- Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) is a crowdsourcing marketplace that makes it easier for individuals and businesses to outsource their processes and jobs to a distributed workforce who can perform these tasks virtually
- SSM negates the need for a bastion host
- AWS Application Discovery Service only gathers data for migration. It helps customers plan migration projects by gathering information about their on-premises data centers. It does not perform the actual migration of physical servers to AWS.
- NACLs supports blocking protocls (TCP/UDP) and Port ranges to the subnet
- Cloudfront - For HTTPS ViewerProtocolPolicy needs to be set
- Lambda@Edge can serve only up to 10,000 requests per second
- CodeArtifact - You cannot configure custom actions or scripts to perform unit tests on artifacts.
- Amazon Lex — Let you create a chatbot to use as an Interactive Voice Response (IVR).
- Amazon Comprehend — Takes the transcription of recordings and applies speech analytics machine learning to the call to identify sentiment, keywords, adherence to company policies, and more
- AWS AppSync is a fully managed service that makes it easy to develop GraphQL APIs by handling the heavy lifting of securely connecting to data sources like Amazon DynamoDB, Lambda, and more
- EFS, there is no minimum fee or setup costs, and you pay only for what you use.

## Paper 5

- ASG Lifecycle hook - If you added an autoscaling:EC2_INSTANCE_TERMINATING lifecycle hook to your Auto Scaling group, the instances move from the Terminating state to the Terminating:Wait state. After you complete the lifecycle action, the instances enter the Terminating:Proceed state. When the instances are fully terminated, they enter the Terminated state.
- S3 Replication Time Control (S3 RTC) helps you meet compliance or business requirements for data replication and provides visibility into Amazon S3 replication times. S3 RTC replicates most objects that you upload to Amazon S3 in seconds and 99.99 percent of those objects within 15 minutes.
- Enabling Data exploration in AWS Migration Hub allows data from on-premises servers to be automatically stored in an Amazon S3 bucket at regular intervals, making it readily available for analysis.
- IAM Identity Center is preferred to manage access to AWS resources over Cognito
- Aurora Auto Scaling dynamically adjusts the number of Aurora Replicas (reader DB instances) provisioned for an Aurora DB cluster
- AWS Lambda, initializing the database connection outside the event handler leverages Lambda’s ability to reuse containers for multiple invocations
- The Direct Connect gateway uses a private virtual interface for the connection to the AWS Direct Connect location. There is an AWS Direct Connect connection from the location to the customer data center.
- For Direct Connect connections to multiple regions you can use one DCX and also one private VIF. You would need to virtual private gateways for the two VPCs however
- For Aurora migrations within region it is easier to share the cluster with RAM and clone it than it is to share the snapshot, the snapshot method would be preferable across regions
- When you create a key pair in the console the downloaded pem key from the EC2 Console is a private key
- When your instance boots for the first time, the public key is placed on the Linux instance in an entry within ~/.ssh/authorized_keys, not the private key
- S3 Cross region replication - If your customers are in two geographic locations, you can minimize latency in accessing objects by maintaining object copies in AWS Regions that are geographically closer to your users.
